Add load balancing docs (#2559)
knative/docs: docs/serving/load-balancing/_index.md

---
title: "Load balancing"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
---

> You can configure load balancing on Knative, by placing the _Activator service_ in the request path to act as a load balancer.

Reviewer: I think it is more precise that you can `turn on **Knative** Load Balancing`. Since there's load balancing provided by k8s and/or mesh provider, if turned on, out of the box.

> **NOTE:** To do this, you must first ensure that individual pod addressability is enabled.

Reviewer: `For this to work, ...`
Since you can put Activator in the request path, just the load balancing will be whatever underlying transport is (mesh provider most likely).

Author: So do we actually need this note at all?
If a user needs to do something here maybe we should add that procedure or link to it to make it clear?

## Activator pod selection

> Activator services are scaled horizontally, so there may be multiple Activators in a deployment. In general, the system will perform best if the number of existing pods is larger than the number of Activators, and those numbers divide equally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activator pods are scaled horizontally, so there may be multiple Activators in a deployment. In general, the system will perform best if the number of revision pods is larger than the number of Activator pods, and those numbers divide equally.
```

<!--TODO(#2472): Add better documentation about what the activator is; explain the components of load balancing; maybe add a diagram-->

Knative assigns a subset of Activators for each revision, depending on the revision size. More revision pods will mean a greater number of Activators for that revision.

The Activator load balancing algorithm works as follows:

- If concurrency is unlimited, the request is sent to the better of two random choices.

> - If concurrency is set to a value less or equal than 3, the activator will send the request to the first pod that has capacity. Otherwise, requests will be balanced in a round robin fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If concurrency is set to a value less or equal than 3, the activator will send the request to the first pod that has capacity. Otherwise, requests will be balanced in a round robin fashion, with respect to container concurrency
```
Or some variation thereof. We will send only to the pods that have capacity, but we will pick them in a RR fashion.
